And
would you say that they carried over any customs
that changed this community, or were they more or
less Americanized by the time that you came in? I
think they've been Americanized to a certain
extent, but there have been some Italian farmers
in the Brazos Bottom that were, I heard at one time
that they worked so hard that they were able to buy
up land. They made good in the farming part, and
they were able to buy up a lot of land that some of the
Native Americans weren't ambitious enough to
work to get. I don't know about the other ethnic
groups. You may mention that the blacks, were they
more or less in a certain part of the city or the
area, the region around here? Yes. They were
about... They still live in the sections
that they were in. There are a few that have moved
out. Would you say that they are still as...
They're very good citizens, I think. I know one
black woman who is a very ambitious person for her
family. She has a daughter who's married to a
colonel in the army, and this daughter has a
nursing degree.
She has two sons who are principals of schools in
various places. And to this day, when her name is
mentioned here, everybody knows about her and
knows what a really ambitious woman she is. And
she's very highly respected. Would you say that
there have... there has been a separation, of
course, between the whites and the blacks in most
things. Would you say that that is still prevalent
or are they coming together closer or were they
ever separated?
I don't know that there's been too much change in
their lifestyles.
Some of them have much better jobs than we used to
have. But I really don't have contact with them
now. I just don't know. I don't have any help at all.
And I have no contact with the black people
anymore.
You mentioned, I noticed when you were talking
about the feeds and how the prices went down when
the first supermarket was built here. Did it seem
to be
certain owners of stores before that time that
kept the prices up? Yes. They were old time people
in Bryan and they were It was hard on them to cut
prices when the supermarkets
came in and brought in
lower prices.
Well, how long have you lived in this area, the
number of years since, what was the year that you
first moved here? I came to Brown in 1927. And you
say that you had two sons, and they both got their
college degrees. Well, the older boy got his
bachelor's degree from the University of Texas.
And then he went on to
medical school in Dallas. The other son went to
Galveston for his medical training. And both took
their specialty. at the same school. So your two
sons, they both left the area at first to gain
employment? Or has the youngest one just finished
school? Oh, no. He's practiced in Houston for
three years. He was in the Army for two years after
his residence in psychiatry. And then he
practiced medicine in Houston for three years.
has just decided to move to this community because
he thinks it's a good community. That's what I was
wondering, whether, you know, all your kids, both
of your sons had left, or whether, you know, they
were here, and so now your youngest son has come
back. He's just been back two weeks, but he's very
happy with me. He plans to stay here, though. Yes,
he plans to stay here. In fact, he's going to live in
this house. He wants to come home. I'm selling in
the house, and they're going to add to it and
rebuild it, and I'm going to an apartment. And
you're staying here then? In College Station, of
course, this is home. I wouldn't consider
anything else. Well, thank you for the time and the
interview. Well, you're quite welcome. I hope
I've been at least a little helpful to you. It's
been real good. Thank you again. You're welcome.
This interview has been with Mrs. William Potts,
first name Aris. She lives at 306 Lee Street in
College Station, Texas, and has lived there for
quite a number of years. She came to this community
in 1927 to teach high school at Bryan High School,
and it was here that she met her husband. She stated
that certain conveniences were already here when
she arrived, but there was also quite a few
lacking. I found, by reading old issues of the
Bryan Eagle, that, in fact, the first sewer
treatment plant was installed in 1913, run by the
city of Bryan, and so it had been in operation for
several years before she arrived. She stated that
when she came here, sewer service was installed.
She also mentioned that the roads were just
gravel. It was not until November 28, 1929, that
the people voted to issue bonds for the purpose of
building a system of highways. Before this, even
Highway 6 was not in very good condition and was
prone to frequent flooding, such as on November
11, 1929. Also in the year 1929, stores such as
Montgomery Ward announced openings in Bryan,
which indicate that the Bryan College Station
area had a bright outlook as far as growth,
especially when you take into account that this
was during Depression years. The schools were in
poor condition except for the one in Bryan where
Mrs. Potts taught. She seemed to be highly pleased
with the school. H. L. Durham was the
superintendent of the Bryan system at that time.
Even as late as 1930, Bryan High School was the only
school in the area that had a good scholastic
program. She mentioned that her uncle had come to
Bryan to open up Allen Academy. This took place in
1899, and so he was quite established by the time
she arrived. This tends to make me believe, along
with a few other remarks such as, I don't have any
help at all, inferring that she used to have
domestic help, that she and her husband were above
average as far as their social and economic
levels. Finally, in 1939, the city of College
Station started taking on other
responsibilities besides just the college, such
as power lines, sewage, and water lines. They
incorporated and began to grow as a city. Mrs.
Potts has seen vast changes take place during her
years. She has gone through such presidents as
Hoover, FDR, and Truman. She has seen a small
cluster of professors and other
college-connected people form the city of
College Station. She lived for a time in an era
where there was no television and people made
their own entertainment, of which she played no
small part. She has seen people grow apart with the
invention of the television and there seemed to be
a twinge of sadness in her voice as she told me how
social life had changed. She has seen College
Station and Bryan grow into one big city and Texas
A&M grow into a major institution. She has much
knowledge and this interview just barely touches
her resources.